---
title: "The Next Big Platform"
description: "Why Augmented Reality and Smart Glasses are the next major computing platform."
---

Looking back in recent history, we can classify the evolution of computing and software into three distinct eras.
Each of these eras also has an associated platform that became the medium for the software of that time.

1. **PC Era** [^0] &rarr; Personal Computer
1. **Internet Era** &rarr; Web Browser
1. **Mobile Era** &rarr; Smartphone

As the evolution of software continues, we can start to speculate on what the next era might be.

I believe the next era will be the **Augmented Reality (AR) Era**, with Smart Glasses as its platform.

## The First Adopter (Dis)advantage

Developing AR wearables is not a new idea however, we've seen many companies unsuccessfully try to deliver a compelling offering in the past years.

- ### 2014 - Google Glass

  Google launches _Google Glass_, a wearable set of eye frames with a projector display built in.

  Despite being one of the first products to market, its unique design is quite jarring and the functionality leaves a lot to be desired.

- ### 2024 - Apple Vision Pro

  Apple debuts a fully immersive (and fully premium) mixed reality headset: the _Apple Vision Pro_.

  Despite a really polished software interface in its _VisionOS_, a hefty price tag and bulky form factor lead to its
  [lack of adoption](https://siliconangle.com/2025/01/01/apple-reportedly-ceases-vision-pro-production-amid-sluggish-sales){:target="\_blank"}.

- ### 2025 - Meta Ray-Ban Display

  Meta launches the _Meta Ray-Ban Display_, a successor to the widely successful _Meta Ray-Bans_, with two new features: An in lens projection display, and a neural wristband for controlling the interface.

  Now this is the current state of the world so it is too early to tell but initial reviews suggest a similar story as before; Despite a compelling technological feat of engineering, its price tag and feature set will be a limiting factor here.

## What Went Wrong

Looking at the past entries in this space, one might start doubting whether this will ever be adopted by consumers.

But if you look closely you might see some common themes emerge:

- **Prohibitive Price:** The cost of these smart glasses products have been more expensive than an everyday smartphone.

- **Limited Functionality:** Not only are they more expensive than a phone, but their feature sets are far sparser making them far less appealing options compared to another wearables like smart watches.

- **Bad Aesthetics:** Since these products are designed to worn on a face, getting their looks right is crucial. Unfortunately with the exception of Meta, past entries have prioritized function over fashion.

## Why AR Will (Eventually) Win

Luckily I think all of these problems are quite solvable as more investment comes into the field and as designs improve.

- ### The Look

  Following in Meta's footsteps I suspect many companies will adopt a more fashionable, sleeker eye glasses form factor. In fact we've already seen rumors of [Apple's entry in this category](https://www.macrumors.com/2025/07/04/apple-smart-glasses-launch-timeframe/){:target="\_blank"} slated for release in 2027.

- ### The Technology

  Smart glasses tech has also made leaps and bounds over the years as chips are able to run more efficiently and more sensors can fit in a smaller form factor. This means that the clunky designs of today will evolve into the sleek designs of tomorrow.

- ### The Interface

  Today's current software interfaces and functionality are also still being iterated upon. As UX design improves in the AR space and as more people get the technology in their hands, the quality of the software and its capabilities will also improve.

- ### The AI Wave

  With the rise of Large Language Models and AI assistants, the ability to delegate tasks to a personal assistant has become commonplace. In a glasses form factor talking hands free to an assistant and getting information without lifting a fair is extremely compelling.

  We've also seen models gain the ability to also understand images and video which paired with the camera feeds already present in AR wearables allows them to help you navigate or understand the world around you.

- ### The Compound Effect

  A pair of smart glasses wouldn't need to be a replacement for a smartphone. Just as a smartphone isn't a replacement for a laptop.

  However these devices would still be able to run applications that have been developed for previous platform allowing companies to reuse existing code and provide users with experiences they are already familiar with.

---

[^0]: Technically this could start at the Mainframe Era, but I don't really consider this a consumer technology.
